bootp

dhcp——rfc 2131

      o "DHCP client"

      A DHCP client is an Internet host using DHCP to obtain
      configuration parameters such as a network address.

      o "DHCP server"

      A DHCP server is an Internet host that returns configuration
      parameters to DHCP clients.

      o "BOOTP relay agent"

      A BOOTP relay agent or relay agent is an Internet host or router
      that passes DHCP messages between DHCP clients and DHCP servers.
      DHCP is designed to use the same relay agent behavior as specified
      in the BOOTP protocol specification.

      o "binding"

      A binding is a collection of configuration parameters, including
      at least an IP address, associated with or "bound to" a DHCP
      client.  Bindings are managed by DHCP servers.
	  
 Message         Use
   -------         ---

   DHCPDISCOVER -  Client broadcast to locate available servers.

   DHCPOFFER    -  Server to client in response to DHCPDISCOVER with
                   offer of configuration parameters.

   DHCPREQUEST  -  Client message to servers either (a) requesting
                   offered parameters from one server and implicitly
                   declining offers from all others, (b) confirming
                   correctness of previously allocated address after,
                   e.g., system reboot, or (c) extending the lease on a
                   particular network address.

   DHCPACK      -  Server to client with configuration parameters,
                   including committed network address.

   DHCPNAK      -  Server to client indicating client's notion of network
                   address is incorrect (e.g., client has moved to new
                   subnet) or client's lease as expired

   DHCPDECLINE  -  Client to server indicating network address is already
                   in use.

   DHCPRELEASE  -  Client to server relinquishing network address and
                   cancelling remaining lease.

   DHCPINFORM   -  Client to server, asking only for local configuration
                   parameters; client already has externally configured
                   network address.
				   

State

dhcpv4
dhcpv6


dhcp with multiple interfaces